# CryptoPricePredictionAlgorithm

This ML model uses market cap data, real-time cryptocurrency data, and the Pytrends and Google APIs to predict future crypto prices. I followed the guide created by Chalita Lertlumprasert (litalert on GitHub). I also used her Towards Data Science guide found here: https://towardsdatascience.com/demystifying-cryptocurrency-price-prediction-5fb2b504a110. I used this model as a reference to predict other cryptocurrency prices and use updated data since her guide was created in 2017/2018.

To develop this model, I mimicked the one described in the guide I followed, which was a classical time series analysis. To start, I first had to determine the cointegrated pair for this model. The cointegrated pair is the pair of cryptocurrencies that had the strongest correlation among its prices. I determined this pair by first finding the key of the top 10 cryptocurrencies currently. Then, I obtained data regarding the prices of each cryptocurrency using the CryptoCompare API. To check whether each cryptocurrency had a stationalized time series, I ran Dickey-Fuller tests on each of them. Some results indicated the series were not stationarized, meaning the statistical properties of the time series did change over time, which we could not allow happen. To resolve this issue, I performed differencing on the cryptocurrencies’ data, which effectively stationalized the time series. I then ran Granger Causality tests on each pair of cryptocurrencies. This test determines how accurate one time series can be in forecasting another. After running all the tests and looking for the pair with the lowest lag value, I designated BTC_XMR as the cointegrated pair. This meant that Bitcoin’s (BTC) and Monero’s (XMR) historical prices were the most strongly correlated, and this model would use Monero’s historical price as one of Bitcoin’s future price predictors.

Once I determined the cointegrated pair, I began importing data. I obtained the historical price data of Bitcoin and Monero using the CryptoCompare API, the query stock data from Yahoo! Financials, and Google search data using the Pytrends API. I also created a CSV file with the market cap data for Bitcoin and Monero over the range from January 3rd to March 26th. I joined all of this data in a dataframe and then standardized the data using StandardScaler(). For all the newly-obtained data, I had to difference their time series to ensure the statistical properties of the time series did not change over time. After this, I split the data into train and test sets. I allocated 80% of the obtained data for the training set and 20% of the data for testing after researching online. Then, I used ElasticNet Regression to find the specific data features which were significant. The results indicated that the Monero historical prices, Google searches for Bitcoin and Monero, and Google searches for GPU mining were the most significant, and this data was used for the model. 

The testing and training datasets were then cleaned, and the ACF and PACF were plotted for the datasets. Then, I used the ARIMAX model to generate fitted values for the training dataset. This model was then used to predict the testing dataset. The out-of-sample prediction was not bad at all, as the model followed the trend of the data for the most part. The mean-squared error for the first 100 steps was 0.316 while the error for steps 101-373 was 0.084. Overall, the model performed well and this project was successful.
